docs: add new blog on offline deployment with docker (#1672)
TabbyML/tabby: website/blog/2024-03-18-deploying-offline-with-docker/index.md

---

> slug: deploying-offline-with-docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Please control slug with directory name instead

Author: Updated these metadata

> title: "Deploying offline with Docker"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To control title you could use snippet like below:
```
# Title
```

authors: [wwayne]

> tags: [deployment offline]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: [deployment]
```

---

<div align="center">

![No internet access](./no-internet.png)

</div>

Are you facing a situation where your work environment lacks internet access, and you're wondering if you can still deploy Tabby? Fear not, because the answer is YES! 🐱📣

> ## Prerequisite📋
> * Docker installed on both the internet-connected computer and the offline computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisite📋

* Docker installed on both the internet-connected computer and the offline computer.
```

> ## The Game Plan🚀
> * Create a Docker image on a computer with internet access. 
> * Transfer the image to your offline computer.
> * Run the Docker image and let Tabby work its magic! ✨

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Game Plan🚀

* Create a Docker image on a computer with internet access. 
* Transfer the image to your offline computer.
* Run the Docker image and let Tabby work its magic! ✨
```

> ## Step-by-Step Guide🐾
> 1. Create a new **Dockerfile** on a computer with internet access.
> ```docker
> FROM tabbyml/tabby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step-by-Step Guide🐾

1. Create a new **Dockerfile** on a computer with internet access.

```docker
FROM tabbyml/tabby
```

Add spacings to make markdown easier to ready in text mode (please also do this for following paragraphs)

Author: Spacings are all added

> RUN /opt/tabby/bin/tabby-cpu download --model TabbyML/StarCoder-1B

Reviewer: use environment [TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT](https://github.com/TabbyML/tabby/blob/52badbbc50b26d897caccda6efc050c9cacd2325/crates/tabby-common/src/path.rs#L12) to store models in `/models` directory

So user can still mount `/data` directory for logging / events if needed

Author: Added `ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models` to the Dockerfile

```
2. Build the Docker image which containing the model
```bash
docker build -t tabby-offline .
```
3. Save the Docker image to a tar file:
```bash
docker save -o tabby-offline.tar tabby-offline
```
4. Copy the `tabby-offline.tar` file to the computer without internet access.
5. Load the Docker image from the tar file:
```bash
docker load -i tabby-offline.tar
```
6. Run the Tabby container
```bash
docker run -it \

>   --gpus all -p 8080:8080 -v $HOME/.tabby:/data \

Reviewer: this won't work, because after you mount `$HOME/.tabby` to `/data`, the `/data` directory become empty, and tabby process will try to download the model file from remote (and failed due to airgap).

Please verify your setup in a real offline environment (with $HOME/.tabby being empty)

Author: you are correct

Author: Current file structure inside the image ![Uploading 2024-03-20 113719.png…]()

Reviewer: looks good

---
authors: [wwayne]
tags: [deployment]
---

# Deploying offline with Docker

<div align="center">

> ![No internet access](./no-internet.png)

Reviewer 2: Make the image smaller / more propotional?

Author: Updated, attached the screenshot in the comment below

</div>

> Are you facing a situation where your work environment lacks internet access, and you're wondering if you can still deploy Tabby? Fear not, because the answer is YES! 🐱📣

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Are you working in an air-gapped environment, and wondering if you can still deploy Tabby? Fear not, because the answer is YES! 🐱📣
```

Author: updated

## Prerequisite📋

* Docker installed on both the internet-connected computer and the offline computer.

> ## The Game Plan🚀

Reviewer 2: Consider making 'The Game Plan' and 'Step-ty-step guideline' into one whole section? The three steps in 'The Game Plan' can be shown as a high-level overview, and the content below is more detailed steps.

Author: updated

* Create a Docker image on a computer with internet access. 
* Transfer the image to your offline computer.
* Run the Docker image and let Tabby work its magic! ✨

## Step-by-Step Guide🐾

1. Create a new **Dockerfile** on a computer with internet access.

```docker
FROM tabbyml/tabby

ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models

RUN /opt/tabby/bin/tabby-cpu download --model StarCoder-1B
```

The **TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT** env var sets the directory for saving downloaded models. By setting `ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models`, we instruct Tabby to save the downloaded model files in the `/models` directory within the Docker container during the build process.

2. Build the Docker image which containing the model

```bash
docker build -t tabby-offline .
```

3. Save the Docker image to a tar file:

```bash
docker build -t tabby-offline .
```

4. Copy the `tabby-offline.tar` file to the computer without internet access.

5. Load the Docker image from the tar file:

```bash
docker load -i tabby-offline.tar
```

6. Run the Tabby container

```bash
docker run -it \
  --gpus all -p 8080:8080 -v $HOME/.tabby:/data \
  tabby-offline \
  serve --model StarCoder-1B --device cuda
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Consider adding a screenshot with the expected output to show it's working

Author: Updated, attached the screenshot in the comment below

---
authors: [wwayne]
tags: [deployment]
---

import noInternetImg from './no-internet.png';

> # Deploying offline with Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploy Tabby in Air-Gapped Environment with Docker
```

Please also update directory name

Reviewer: also update date to be 2024-03-25

Now, let's dive into the detailed steps:

1. Create a new **Dockerfile** on a computer with internet access.

```docker
FROM tabbyml/tabby

ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models

RUN /opt/tabby/bin/tabby-cpu download --model StarCoder-1B
```

The **TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT** env var sets the directory for saving downloaded models. By setting `ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models`, we instruct Tabby to save the downloaded model files in the `/models` directory within the Docker container during the build process.

2. Build the Docker image which containing the model

```bash
docker build -t tabby-offline .
```

3. Save the Docker image to a tar file:

```bash
docker build -t tabby-offline .
```

4. Copy the `tabby-offline.tar` file to the computer without internet access.

5. Load the Docker image from the tar file:

```bash
docker load -i tabby-offline.tar
```

6. Run the Tabby container

```bash
docker run -it \
  --gpus all -p 8080:8080 -v $HOME/.tabby:/data \
  tabby-offline \
  serve --model StarCoder-1B --device cuda
```

Once the container is running successfully, you should see the CLI output similar to the screenshot below:

![Tabby Cli Output](./cli-output.png)

> If you encounter any further issues or have questions, feel free to explore our [community](https://slack.tabbyml.com/). Our friendly Tabby enthusiasts are always ready to lend a helping paw and guide you to the answers you seek! 😸💡

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter any further issues or have questions, consider join our [slack community](https://links.tabbyml.com/join-slack). Our friendly Tabby enthusiasts are always ready to lend a helping paw and guide you to the answers you seek! 😸💡
```

Author: ![2024-03-25 143840](https://github.com/TabbyML/tabby/assets/5305874/e5bb84d2-6d46-4e4d-909f-fcbffe20d42b)

Author: ![2024-03-25 144239](https://github.com/TabbyML/tabby/assets/5305874/110e4b80-8015-4b6e-85d6-c24e4aeb6b17)

Are you facing a situation where your work environment lacks internet access, and you're wondering if you can still deploy Tabby? Fear not, because the answer is YES! 🐱📣

## Prerequisite📋

* Docker installed on both the internet-connected computer and the offline computer.

## The Game Plan🚀

* Create a Docker image on a computer with internet access. 
* Transfer the image to your offline computer.
* Run the Docker image and let Tabby work its magic! ✨

## Step-by-Step Guide🐾

1. Create a new **Dockerfile** on a computer with internet access.

```docker
FROM tabbyml/tabby

ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models

RUN /opt/tabby/bin/tabby-cpu download --model StarCoder-1B
```

> 

Reviewer: add some explaination here on what does TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT do and what does this command do

Author: Added the following:

The **TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT** env var sets the directory for saving downloaded models. Setting it to `/models` will store the model in the `/models` directory of the Docker container.

Reviewer: could you also explain the command? it downloads the model to the dir.

Author: Changed to:

The **TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT** env var sets the directory for saving downloaded models. By setting `ENV TABBY_MODEL_CACHE_ROOT=/models`, we instruct Tabby to save the downloaded model files in the `/models` directory within the Docker container during the build process.
